Now as I mentioned firebase has authentication built in.
We just need to go to the authentication area there and then click on setup sign and method and there
choose password and email or e-mail password here enabled is click save.
And with that we have it enabled.
Now we can send requests to a firebase API to create users or to locked them in now in order to find
out where to send the requests.
You can google for firebase the rest of the API and you will find these official docs where you learn
how to create and sign and users with their API.
Then there are a bunch of endpoints for different things here in this apple focus on signing up and
signing it.
So if you click on sign up with e-mail and password we learn how that works.
We need to send a HDP request a post request with this content type to this you are L enter our own
API key here which I'll show you where you get it from in a second and attach this body to the request.
So e-mail password and then does return secure token field which should basically always be true as
a response will get back a token that's that token I mentioned on the slide while the email we used
a refresh token which is more advanced.
This token here will expire actually after this amount of seconds which we all to get back with a refresh
token we could recreate it Reveille dated.
Without having the user to log in again will not do that here.
You would have a separate end point to which you sent the refresh token to get a new I.D. token.
We'll keep it simple here and just use that token and lock the user in again after the expiry time because
that expiry time is also something we get.
So did we know when this token will become invalid and can't be used anymore because we'll have to clean
it up in our app by then so that we don't try attaching this invalid token to future requests to our
database and local I.D. That's the user I.D. of the user which firebase created on its servers because
we do not have to do any of that user management firebase will do that we don't need to write any suicide
code.
So what we need to do is send a HDP request.
And since I also will manage this all with redux I will create a new action creator for this and I'll
name it off.
I will also already create a reducer because we will also manage some off related stuff there for example
to token into user I.D..
Let's start with the action though and let's.
Hence export action creator here which could be named sign up.
Makes sense to start with that because log in users will only be possible after we created at least
one user so here in sign up.
I want to be able to well create a new user and for that we'll need an email and a password.
So dad should be passed to just sign up action creator from outside.
Now then this will send the HBP request and in order to be able to do that we'll use the redux of funk
package again and therefore return async dispatch here.
So we return a function which can use async await which gets that D dispatch function as an argument
passed in by the redux func middleware we started using in the last H2 new module of this course and
this allows us to run async code before we then dispatch an action that actually reaches our story.
Now for that will also need the action identifier for dead action which we later want to handle in our
store and they are all just use sign up which also has sign up as a string identifier.
So here in the end we'll then dispatch this action object where the type is sign up and where we will
probably then also add some extra data but before we do that we need to send the H TTP request.
Now that can be done with the fetch API as you learned in the last module and definitely go through
that module first.
Therefore and this is to you are L we need to send the request to so we can copy that added here and
now we have that API key thing.
Now that's something we can get from firebase by clicking on the gear.
I can hear project settings there.
You'll find that web AP API key and that's exactly what you need.
Copy that and replace API key including the square brackets with that key.
This is a U R L we will need to send a request to ask the official docs tell us we need to send a post
request.
So as you learned we need to add this second argument here to fetch.
Which is the object which allows us to configure that request and there we can set the method to post
and also add some headers because we'll need to add the application adjacent header so the content type
header which should have a value of application Jason and we'll need to add a body and that body needs
to be in Jason format which we can get with Jason stringy Fi and do data one a string of Fi needs to
be an object with these three keys email password and return secure token so here of course email refers
to the email we're getting as an argument here the same for password which refers to the password argument
we're getting and then it's this third and I'll just copy it to not mis type it.
Return secure token argument here or key value pair where the value should just be true this request
should create a new user.
Now we can wait for its response with the await keyword and then as you learned earlier we can check
if the response is not okay if that's the case I want to throw a new error where I say something went
wrong and we'll have a look at more detailed error handling later for now that's it and if it is okay
however I want to get my response data by waiting for response Jason which will unpack the response
body and automatically transform it from Jason format to JavaScript so to a javascript object or array
and now we will be able to work with that and for the moment all simply locked his response data here
now we haven't added the rest of our all related redux store we'll do that later but we have something
that should work we should be able to dispatch this and therefore it sends such a sign up request.
So now we can go back to the off screen and there in the end when we click does log in button which
is incorrectly labeled log in at the moment when we actually do sign up but let's leave it like this
for the moment.
So when we click this button I want to send to sign up request so for that we need to ask before import
use this patch from react redux so that we can dispatch actions.
And of course import everything as of actions from the store folder data from the actions folder and
there from the off file.
And with that added We can add a function here.
You write in line function or like this named function stored in a constant.
Which I'll name sign up.
Handler dear.
I expect no arguments and there I then want to dispatch.
So we need to get access to that dispatch function by executing used dispatch.
Then here we can dispatch.
Does all actions sign up event or sign up.
Action.
Not a problem is this requires the email and the password.
And right now I'm not storing this.
I get this in my input but here on input change I'm not storing that data which I of course should.
Now we can have a look at our other form here to see how we did that.
So in the edit product screen we of course have our form reducer here which manages our entire formulated
validity and the values.
So in the end we can copy that and add it to the off screen outside of all screen component like this
and go back to the added product screen to then also grab the part down there where we initialize stead
with use reducer.
So copy all of this and added to the off screen as well.
Now inside of the component maybe here and for that to work we also need to import use reducer from
react.
And with that imported now we just need to tweak it a little bit this form reducer is fine.
And by the way you could outsource this into a separate file because we're using the same type of reducer
in both the offscreen and the edit product screen.
You could even create a custom hook if you know how that works.
For now I'll just leave it like this.
One thing I need though is the form input update.
Let me grab that from the edit product screen as well.
This constant here.
Let's move that in off screen as well.
So now is that.
That's all fine but down there where I call use reducer and initialized is all that of course looks
differently.
We should have an email which initially is empty and a password which initially is empty and for the
validity is it's the same.
We just have an email which in this initially is not valid and we have a password which initially is
not valid and the overall form therefore also initially is not valid.
Now dispatch form state should be triggered whenever our input changes here
so here in on input change of course you know and you can see it in the edit product screen.
We get free values we get the input identifier the input value and the input validity.
So in the end we can just copy this year from edit product screen and move it to the off screen and
replace this anonymous function with it or actually stored this in a new variable here.
Input change handler which now holds dysfunction now just as in the added product screen user.
Wrap this with use callback to make sure that this doesn't re render when it shouldn't.
So actually we should grab it here including the use callback call and the dependencies of use callback.
So this is actually what should be used down there on the input change handler.
Now it is input change handler can be bound or can be set here to the on input change props so that
these props target dysfunction.
And now is that we're storing our foreign values or our input values in our forum state which we handled
with use reduced trends on.
So now it's this forum state I'm interested in here in my sign up handler because they're to sign up
I need to pass from state input values stored email and form state input value stored password.
So these two values which were gathered and now to sign up handler here dysfunction can be bound to
this button down there to log in button here and on press because this is the function of when appointed
to execute it when we press this button.
Let's see where dad works as it should if I start entering values here
I do get my validation errors but somehow they're not showing up.
That's the case because it's not error message here but error text on the inputs into the off screen.
So if we change that error message to error text.
Now if we test us if I click in here to have out of there I get my warnings.
Now if I enter a valid e-mail address this is gone.
If I enter a password that's long enough that's gone if I now click log in year let's see where that
works.
Let's go to Firebase 2 authentication and dare you now should see and you user.
This is the user which just was created.
So signing up works.
Now let's make sure we can also switch to log in mode and make that work as well.
By the way also note that this here is the data we got back.
So that's the response.
This object with email.
How long.
The token is valid in seconds.
Then the token itself which is does long cryptic string then also deed the idea of the user which was
created and that refresh token.